Create inline_link_in_paragraph_is_distinguishable_ be4d0c.md (#1010)
act-rules/act-rules.github.io: _rules/inline-link-in-paragraph-has-distinguishable-content-e7cc2b.md

---
id: e7cc2b
name: Inline link has distinguishable content
rule_type: atomic
description: |
  This rule checks that inline links have content that distinguishes them from the surrounding text
accessibility_requirements:
input_aspects:
  - DOM Tree
  - CSS Styling
acknowledgments:
  authors:
    - Brian Bors
    - Carlos Duarte
    - Wilco Fiers
---

## Applicability

This rule applies to any [visible][] HTML element that is a [semantic link][], for which all the following is true:

- **link text**: The element has [visible][] [text nodes][text node] as [descendants][descendant] in the [flat tree][]; and
- **non-link line text**: The element is [rendered on a line][] containing [visible][] [text nodes][text node] that are not [descendants][descendant] in the [flat tree][] of a [semantic link][].

## Expectation

> Each target element has content (such as an image or text) visually located inside, or immediately before or after the test target, that indicates the test target is a link.

Reviewer: Also, "visually located inside, or immediately before or after the test target" is not very good formulation.

* inside => do you mean inside the clientrect, the bounding box, the element (what does it mean to be visually inside an element?)
* **immediately** before or after => was does that mean for visual location? That between the image and the target there is only non-visible stuff? That the distance is small enough? That there is no other image or text between them?

Author: Tried to rephrase it to address this concern.

- [F73: Failure of Success Criterion 1.4.1 due to creating links that are not visually evident without color vision](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Techniques/failures/F73)
- [C15: Using CSS to change the presentation of a user interface component when it receives focus](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Techniques/css/C15)

## Test Cases

### Passed

#### Passed Example 1

This is a link that is a descendant of a paragraph element, and therefore in an inline block of content. An icon is added to distinguish it as a link.

```html
<style>
	*,
	a.test {
		text-decoration: none;
	}
</style>
<p>
	Read about WAI on the
	<a class="test" href="http://w3.org/WAI">WAI webpage <img src="/test-assets/be4d0c/icon.png" alt=""/></a>.
</p>
```

#### Passed Example 2

This is a link that is a descendant of a paragraph element, and therefore in an inline block of content. Text is added to distinguish it as a link.

```html
<style>
	*,
	a.test {
		text-decoration: none;
	}
</style>

> <p>Read about WAI on the <a class="test" href="http://w3.org/WAI">WAI webpage by following this link</a>.</p>

Reviewer 2: I don't think this passes. See my comment on the composite rule for details. The fact that we can both read this rule and come to different conclusions about this example tells me the rule's expectation needs to be updated too.

Author: I haven't really understood why you don't think this should pass (not even from your comments in the composite rule).
I don't understand what you mean with "visual means". The expectation requires some form of content that indicates the link is a link. The "visual" part is just to ensure that it is located (visually) close to the link.
When I read text stating "following this link" I expect at least the "link" word to be a link. So, there is content (the text) in the link indicating it is a link.

Could you further elaborate on why you don't think this passes?

Reviewer 3: I would say text is a "visual means of conveying information", and thus this should pass.

## Applicability

> This rule applies to any [visible][] HTML element that is a [semantic link][], where the closest element (including itself) that generates an [inline box][] is part of a [line box][] that has [inline boxes][inline box] generated from an element containing [visible][] [text nodes][text node] that do not have a [semantic link][] as a [descendant][] in the [flat tree][].

Reviewer 4: Same as in the other rules, I think more work needs to be done in this paragraph.

#### Passed Example 1

> This is a link that is a descendant of a paragraph element, and therefore in an inline block of content. An icon is added to distinguish it as a link.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This link has an icon that makes it distinguishable as a link, and is a descendant of a paragraph element.
``

#### Passed Example 2

> This is a link that is a descendant of a paragraph element, and therefore in an inline block of content. Text is added to distinguish it as a link.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This is a link that is a descendant of a paragraph element, and therefore in an inline block of content. Text is added to distinguish it as a link.
```

#### Failed Example 1

> This is a link that is a descendant of a paragraph element, and therefore in an inline block of content. The underline is removed and the link has no visual cues of being recognized as a link.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This link has its underline removed, lacks visual cues of being recognized as a link,
 and is a descendant of a paragraph element, and therefore in an inline block of content.
```
